The biggest myth in this whole debate is that there is some clear division between the arguments about democracy, and the arguments about economics.

We are invited to believe that there are two ways of measuring the question of EU membership for Britain; two sets of scales; two units of calibration.

For instance there are many reasonable people on the Remain side who are willing to accept that the EU suffers from what has for a long time been acknowledged to be a democratic deficit.

If pushed, they would admit that there are legitimate concerns about the accountability of the Commission, about the popular legitimacy of the European parliament, and about the increasingly wayward judgments of the European court of justice.

They would accept – when they are being reasonable – that there is something troubling about the sheer volume of EU law, and the way it now contributes 60 per cent of the law passing through parliament.

They would acknowledge that this vast corpus of EU law is generated by the Brussels commission; and that it is now extremely worrying that only 3.6 per cent of EU Commission officials actually come from this country.

They would accept that it is disturbing, to say the least, that the UK is now outvoted more and more often – 72 times in the last 20 years.

They would in their sober moments accept that there is a serious and growing democratic problem, and that on the question of democracy it is this side – the Leave side - that holds the high cards.

But they argue that this sacrifice is worth it, because of the economic advantages of being in the EU. I think I am fair to their argument.

I also believe that argument to be both morally disturbing and practically wrong.

On the contrary, it is the very absence of democratic control that is having all sorts of disastrous economic consequences, both for Britain and for the EU.

1… We are currently unable to exercise democratic control over such basic economic matters as our tax rates – so that we cannot cut the price of fuel for elderly people; we cannot cut the cost of motoring; and despite the pleas of the Chancellor we cannot even cut the tampon tax.

2… We cannot exercise democratic control over the energy costs of our steel firms, even when those costs are far higher than in other EU countries – so that companies in this country are going to the wall because of our slavish adherence to EU rules.

3…We cannot do anything to stop the torrent of EU legislation, coming at a rate of 2,500 a year, and imposing costs of £600m per week on UK business.

4…We cannot control the EU budget, not just in the sense that we send £350m a week gross to Brussels, much of which we never see again, but also because we can be asked to pay more – without warning – if the UK is deemed to have performed better than other EU countries.

5…We can neither stop other countries going ahead with ill-advised plans to create an economic government of Europe – since we explicitly gave up our veto in February – and nor can we protect the UK taxpayer from the demands of the eurozone countries for bail-out funds; nor can we protect the UK economy from the impact of further single market measures – on company law and property and many other areas, as set out in the Five Presidents report.

6…Above all, we can do nothing to protect this country from the biggest economic change we have seen for a century or more – the very rapid growth in population that is largely a function of immigration, which is in turn a function of the euro crisis. I repeat my challenge to the Remain campaign: what is their vision for Britain, with our population set to climb so rapidly? Where do they intend to build the houses? How will the health service cope?

There is one answer to all these economic problems, and that is to take back control – so that we make our laws and our trade policy and our immigration policy to suit the needs of the UK economy.

The benefits of being in the single market have been wildly overstated – look at the far greater success that countries OUTSIDE the EU have had, in exporting INTO the EU, than we have.

It is a myth and a delusion to think that we can somehow gain greater prosperity by bartering away our freedom and our democracy. In fact, we can see at every stage how the loss of democratic control is turning into an economic disaster.

There is nowhere else that is engaged in anything like this experiment, of trying to fuse countries into a giant political entity; and in its centralising tendencies the European project is going against the tide of events and history.

The risks of remaining in this over-centralising, over-regulating job-destroying machine are becoming more and more obvious, which is why I believe we are winning the arguments today.

It is time to take back control, and speak for freedom in Britain and around the whole of the EU.

 

