If we want economic risk we should remain in the European Union.  

That's because the EU can only develop in one of two ways.

Firstly, to try and safeguard the future of the single currency, the eurozone will need to consolidate into what looks very like a single state; financial, economic, legal and political integration. The plans have already been sketched out in some detail.

It will be driven by a mercantilist Germany benefiting greatly from the euro, which means its exports are significantly underpriced. This has come at the expense of other eurozone members, especially in southern Europe. It has "beggared its neighbours".

If we in the UK, remain as part of that setup, we will be on the margins, paying the bills, burdened by the regulations, with no say and, most importantly, no freedom to control our own economy.

Alternatively, as Mervyn King, the former governor of the Bank of England has predicted, the second possibility is that the eurozone will explode and,  believe me, we don't want to be in the same room when that bomb goes off, inevitably paying to clear up the wreckage and with no freedom to act. 

That is the double jeopardy of Remain.

When the British people take back control on June 23, we will be free of this huge uncertainty and able to manage our own destiny.

As Gisela pointed out, immigration and the economy are one and the same thing.

As long as we remain tied to the eurozone crisis and to countries in the EU that have far lower wages than Britain, low cost workers will come here in large numbers.
This will continue to push us down the path of a low-wage, low-productivity, low-skill economy.

With no incentive to invest or train for skills we have a national scandal of over half a million unemployed under twenty fives.

At this point in the economic cycle, wages should be rising naturally, but they are not. That is because uncontrolled mass migration has been a disaster for working people in this country.

And, on top of this, there is little incentive to invest in productivity improvement, again condemning workers to a low wage future. 

Ironically, we also suffer from skills shortages as migration of skilled workers from outside the EU is restricted, a further break on productivity growth. 

When we take back control we can boost productivity and wages and make sure we train our young people for work.

And we will be free to intervene when we need to to safeguard our foundation industries like: steel, basic chemicals, metals and high energy use industries, all of which are at risk as they face unfair competition, a regulatory straight jacket and inflated costs, all as a consequence of the EU. And it is the EU straightjacket that stops helping, at great cost to our economy and the communities who depend on these industries. 

If we stay in the EU we will carry on paying ever more from our taxes and see ever more regulations holding back our businesses from growing and competing in the world.

The majority of businesses who are the backbone of the economy, now believe that the EU is bad for them.

Taking back control will mean we can design a system of business regulation that suits the British economy, not the current Avalanche of bureaucracy that is an attempt to harmonise 28 very different economies.

That’s the reality of what the Single Market is, it’s a protectionist customs union backed by the Brussels regulation machine, and we are better off out of it, trading freely with the world, including our European neighbours, under our own laws.

Taking back control means reclaiming our net contribution to the EU of £10 billion a year. It is already planned to rise and the EU is threatening further increases. Coupled with just a tenth of the EU regulatory cost, worth another £12.5 billion a year, this combined would add a whopping 1.1% to GDP.

We will also save ourselves the massive cost of tax refunds to multinationals imposed by the European Court of Justice’s rulings that set aside our tax laws. This could reach £43bn by 2021.

This all adds up to our businesses and the economy being more productive. 

Jobs will be safer, our infrastructure will be better and our public services better funded.

Britain will be the best place in the world to do business. 

Taking back control on June 23 will be the way to reach our potential and be sure of our future prosperity.