When the Prime Minister appeared on television last Thursday night to argue for Remain, he had some awkward moments.

But nothing made him look uncomfortable quite like talking about immigration

He couldn’t explain why he wasn’t able to meet his pledge to get net migration below 100,000.

The best hope, he said, was if thousands of British people emigrate.

So there it is.

David Cameron’s vision for managing migration is to hope the British get out.

What an admission of defeat --- not just for his careless pledge, but for the country.

In a sense he is right, though.

Migration from Europe is uncontrolled.

And the grave risk of Remain is that it will always be uncontrollable and be without consent.

That means a future of:

--Growing Brussels control over our borders.

--Mass migration speeding up.

--Pressure heaped on public services.

--And the people who are hardest-hit will be those who can least afford it. Cameron offered not a glimmer of light for them.

Last year, Britain saw record net migration of more than 180,000 from the EU.

What’s happening on the continent is raising the pressure.

The single currency is a job-destruction machine.

Wide areas are trapped in a high-debt, low growth cycle and face decades of austerity and unemployment.

In Greece, more than half young people are jobless.

Economic migrants will flee the eurozone in growing numbers, many of them to Britain.

The pressure of migration into Europe from beyond is compounding the risk.

Last year more than a million people moved into the continent answering the invitation issued by Angela Merkel. She did so without consulting her voters or other EU countries.

They arrived with minimal checks, no one really knows their backgrounds.

Once they have a passport or an ID card from an EU country they will be free to come to Britain.

The scenes in the Mediterranean, bodies washing up on beaches by the hundred, are a human tragedy

The determination to rip down borders in defiance of popular opinion has fuelled the rise of far-right politicians.

Free movement without consent is dangerous and a risk to stability.

In Britain, the impact is felt above all by those on the lowest incomes.

For them, the Bank of England has calculated that every 10% increase in migration leads to a 2% fall in wages.

They are the ones who have to worry most if they can get a doctor’s appointment, a school place or a home--and who face the constant undercutting of their wages by migrant workers.

While we remain the EU, they can only look forward to more of the same.

Or worse.

Nearly ninety million people in Turkey and four Balkan countries are being lined up for free movement followed by EU membership.

Average earnings in Albania are only 13% of what they are in Britain - and less than a fifth of the £9 an hour that the National Living Wage will reach in 2020.

It’s a policy I support, but with uncontrolled migration it will make life worse for people on the lowest incomes.

If those countries join, EU migration is forecast to go over 400,000 a year by 2030, that is a city the size of Bristol every 12 months.

Meanwhile, control of our borders will ebb away to Brussels.

Unaccountable EU judges already stop us turning away criminals or people who come here without a job, despite Cameron saying he could win curbs to unrestricted freedom of movement.

The judges are now extending their power so they control immigration to Britain from outside the EU. The EU is deciding our asylum policy, including telling us who qualifies as a refugee.

I don’t want to shut the doors.

I am an immigrant who came to Britain from Germany in 1974 and I ended up an MP and a government minister.

But Britain’s openness is being tested as never before.

While we remain in the EU, noone can be held accountable for the shambles.

But when the British people take back control on June 23, we will design a migration system fit for our economy.

Regardless of where people have been born, we can then accept them on a points-based system that recognises the skills we need.

In an age of mass migration more than ever, we need to control our borders.

The decision on 23rd June  will shape our future as a country for the next generation. It goes well beyond who might or might not be the next incumbent in No 10.

Let’s not just throw up our hands -- which is just about all we are allowed to do while we stay in the EU.

Let’s take back control and Vote Leave.