The European Union was born of a desire to banish conflict from our continent. The ambition was noble.

And I admire the idealism of those in the post-war years who wished to see democracy secured in Europe.

I particularly admire those great pragmatists like Winston Churchill, Ludwig Erhard and Charles de Gaulle who recognised that peace and stability depended on a democratic culture taking root at the level of nation states.

But it is very hard to be idealistic about the reality of the European Union today. Far from entrenching democracy, it works to frustrate the democratic will of Europe's peoples while its own structures are unaccountable and anti-democratic.

And far from providing greater security, the institutions of the European Union are undermining our citizens' safety.

That's because Europe’s leaders have put the pursuit of ideology ahead of thinking pragmatically about our security.

They have pursued projects like the single currency and the borderless Schengen zone which have weakened our continent's resilience.

The euro has created economic weakness and an inability properly to increase funding for intelligence, policing and defence at a time of grave global danger.

The eurozone has also produced economic hardship and in the process fostered the growth of extremist parties and movements which have made the formation of stable governments more difficult - from Spain to Ireland.

The borderless Schengen zone, meanwhile, without proper passport checks, “abets terrorists”.

That isn’t just my view – but the view of Ronald Noble, Interpol’s secretary general from 2000 to 2014.

Schengen has weakened our guard against terrorists, drug smugglers, human traffickers and other criminals and still many of Europe’s leaders defend it – proving that for many of the continent’s political elite the drive to created a United States of Europe will always overcome common sense.

And don’t think for one moment that they have finished with their ambitions to create “more Europe".

If we vote to Remain then we will have signed up for the project's forward march. And the plans which have been held back during the renegotiation and referendum will be brought forward - without our now being able to escape.

As The Times has reported, a European army is the next big project.

Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, has said as much.

So have the German defence and foreign ministers.

It will not happen tomorrow but a European army should worry us for at least two big reasons.

One: it will be used as an excuse by nation states who already don’t spend enough on defence to spend even less.

Only Britain, Estonia, Greece and Poland - of NATO’s EU members - currently spend the NATO minimum target of 2% of GDP.

Setting up a rival to NATO is a risk we simply shouldn't take.

The North Atlantic alliance has underwritten our defence because the USA with its huge military might is a member.

We should be strengthening NATO, not seeking to set up an inferior alternative. 

The risks to our security if we Remain are why so many distinguished veterans - from Sir Michael Rose to Colonel Richard Kemp, Major General Julian Thompson to Rear Admiral Chris Parry - believe we should vote to Leave.

But even more important than avoiding future dangers is countering those which are clear and present.

And that means freeing ourselves from the jurisdiction of the rogue European Court of Justice.

The European Court of Justice is not a normal court, as we in Britain understand and have understood courts for centuries. It is not overseen by independent judges who seek to interpret and enforce laws agreed by a democratically-elected legislature.

It is a court with a fundamentally political agenda - to further the cause of European integration no matter what democratically elected legislatures think. Indeed the ECJ can over-rule Parliament and strike down our laws, forcing us to accept its rulings.

On 101 occasions since we joined the then European Economic Community in 1973 we have lost cases before the Court.

That will not change if we Remain – if anything it will accelerate.

As the former head of MI6, Sir Richard Dearlove, has pointed out, European judges threaten our security on at least three fronts.

They have consistently thwarted efforts by successive Home Secretaries to deport criminals and terrorists who endanger Britain.

They consistently take a fundamentalist view of freedom of movement so that even outside the Schengen arrangement we are constrained in deciding who can and cannot enter or stay in Britain.

With a significant number of terrorists, who have been training and fighting alongside Isis, now back in Europe and able to move freely across much of the continent that issue could hardly be more live.

And European judges are also attempting to have a say on the kind of data we can share with our key intelligence allies in America, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
Indeed if Britain votes to remain, European judges may begin to expand their remit over our security and intelligence agencies - the drive to erode national autonomy is at the heart of the Court's project. But as General Mike Hayden, the former head of the CIA has pointed out, national security is best enhanced by intelligence being handled by nation states.

With the risks of Remaining so clear I am confident that the British people will vote to take back control on June 23, they will vote to take back control of our borders, of national security and of the laws which can keep criminals and terrorists out of our country.